# ReactJs

## What is SPA ?
- There are three different types of applications in general
  - Static WebSites
  - Dynamic WebSites
  - SPA

### Static WebSites
- In a traditional system, when the browser talks to an URL the whole web page is send to the browser from the back end. The content is stored as an HTML in the server. This reloads the whole screen to reload the content.
### Dynamic WebSites
- In a traditional system, when the browser talks to an URL the whole web page is send to the browser from the back end. The HTML content is generated in the server dynamically. This reloads the whole screen to reload the content.

- In a nutshell, the HTML code is completly built on the server.
- The problem with both the approach is that it is really difficult to build a modern website using the above mentioned style of building websites.

### SPA
- The idea is inspired from Mobile Apps.
- SPA have a sevrer and a client. It just has one HTML file loaded with bunch of JS content loaded and started.As we all know JS runs on a browser.
-  So the idea is the JS code takes care of fetching the data and build the DOM in the browser. So, No server calls in here to reload the HTML.
- Basically no request is sent to the backend to load the retrieve the HTML.

### Why React?
- UI state becomes too difficult handle. Reacts helps taking care of the state of the application.
- React is backed by a Huge community and its pretty easy to find a solution to a problem.

### Single Page vs Multi Page Apps

| SPA  | MPA |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Only one HTML Page, Content is rendered on client. After that everything is managed with **React**. | Multiple HTML Page and the content is rendered from Server. |
| Page is displayed as multiple Components and its managed by a framework like **React** | It can be displayed as components. But its a combination of individual HTML pages , css and etc. We can have react components to be part of it as widgets |
| Page is displayed as multiple Components and its managed by a framework like **React** | It can be displayed as components. But it's a combination of individual HTML pages , css and etc. We can have react components to be part of it as widgets |
| ReactDOM.render() call to rerender the page. Typical there is only one parent React Component is available.  | If React is included in MPA, then multiple ReactDOM.render() call for each component|

## Java Script Basics

- Click on the link below for JavaScript basics.

[Java Script Basics](https://github.com/code-with-dilip/reactJs/blob/master/JavaScript.md)

### React and React DOM

**React** - This takes for building the react components.
**ReactDOM** - This takes for rendering the react components and display it in the browser.

## React

### Set Up

- Update to latest version of node.

```
brew install node
```


### Dev Server

- Live Server is a simple server that can be used for develpment purposes.

```
yarn global add live-server
```

- Launching the server using the below code. The **index.html** file that under the **public** folder gets served in the browser.
- The below command launches the server in the port **8080**.

```
live-server public
```

### First React Element

- The below code without babel.

```
var template = React.createElement("h1", {id: "someid"},"Something new" );

ReactDOM.render(template, document.getElementById('app'));
```

### Setting up Babel

- This is a JavaScript compiler.
- In order to make babel work and convert the jsx file to a browser understandable code, you need to set **Presets** so that babel can understand.
- Installing babel globally.

```
yarn global add babel-cli@6.24.1
```

- This takes care of compiling the latest code(ES6, ES7) to the browser compatible ES5 code.
  - This is really handy when you are trying to run the latest js code in the old browsers.

- Initiate the project with yarn using the below code. This generates the file **package.json** to the root project.

```
yarn init
```

- The below dependencies are needed to compile the JSX code to a browser compatible code.

```
yarn add babel-preset-react // this takes care of reading the react related code.
yarn add babel-preset-env // this takes care of all of the ES5, 6, 7 related functionality.
```
- The above commands are going to add the below dependencies to the **package.json** file.
```
"dependencies": {
  "babel-preset-env": "^1.7.0",
  "babel-preset-react": "^6.24.1"
}
```

- **yarn.lock** -> This is an autogenerated file and it has information about the transitive dependencies and the repository from which its downloaded. No need to edit this file.

- Now its time to create a **src** directory and place the **app.js** file.
- Add the **JSX** code below
```
console.log('app.js running');

var template = <p>Hello JSX, How are you ?</p>;

ReactDOM.render(template, document.getElementById('app'));
```

- Let's run the below command. This generated the browser compatible code and places it in the **public/scripts/app.js** file.

- The **--watch** argument takes care of listening to changes and generate a browser compatible code on the fly.

```
babel src/app.js --out-file=public/scripts/app.js --presets=env,react --watch
```


### Build WorkFlow
**Dependency Management** - Use npm or yarn for dependency management.
**WebPack** - This is a Bundler which takes care of bundle all the different types of files in the project in to its appropriate modules.
**Babel** - This is a compiler to compile the java script code. Basically this is needed to translate the code from modern js code to a code that can work in old and modern browsers.
**Development Server** - We need a server to run our Java Script code, so that the app can be accessed as like a real app that we connect to in production.

### Exploring the Package Structure of a react-app

- **package.json** - This has all the dependencies that are required for the react project.
- **node-modules** - This is the directory which was created automatically and it holds all the dependencies that are needed by the project.
- **public** - This folder which get served by the webserver.
- **index.html** - This is the only html file thats present in the whole react app with the div id **root**. The whole react app is mounted in to this div tag.
- **App.js** - This is the file which holds the react code.
- **index.js** - This is the file which renders the react component and mounts it in to the div tag **root**.

- This the key command that takes care of applying the **App** react component to the div tag with the name **root** which is present in the index.html.

```
ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
```

#### Sample React Component

**Approach 1**
- **render()** method is mandatory, because will call this method to render something to the screen.
- The content thats inside the render() method is a **jsx** code.
- Creating components using the class gives you the option to define a state.

```
import React, {Component} from 'react';
import './App.css';

class App extends Component{
  render(){
    return (
      <div className="App">
        <h1>Hi, I am a REACT App.</h1>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default App;
```
**Approach 2**
- This is a function based component. Use this when you feel like there is not going to be a any state in the component.

```
function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <h1>Hi, I am a REACT App.</h1>
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

### Understanding JSX

- JSX is a syntax extension to Java Script. JSX code will only be written inside a **js** code.
- JSX produces react elements.
- JSX helps to couple the mark up and logic together.
- Whatever that's written inside the react Component is a JSX code
